.TH HCAL 1 "December 2025" "hcal 1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
hcal \- a command-line calendar with highlighting and holiday support
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hcal
[\fIoptions\fR] [\fImonth\fR] [\fIyear\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B hcal
is a simple command-line calendar utility written in Python. It is similar to the standard \fBcal\fR command but offers additional features such as highlighting the current date, coloring weekends, and supporting holidays (currently localized for Japan).
.PP
By default, \fBhcal\fR displays the current month with today's date highlighted.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h
Disable highlighting of today's date.
.TP
.BR \-j
Display Julian days (day of year).
.TP
.BR \-3
Display the previous, current, and next month.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-after " \fIAFTER\fR"
Display \fIAFTER\fR number of months after the current month.
.TP
.BR \-B ", " \-\-before " \fIBEFORE\fR"
Display \fIBEFORE\fR number of months before the current month.
.TP
.BR \-y " [\fIYEAR\fR]"
Display a calendar for the specified \fIYEAR\fR. If no year is provided, it defaults to the current year.
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I month
The month number (1-12). If only the month is specified, the current year is assumed. If a number greater than 12 is provided, it is interpreted as a year.
.TP
.I year
The year (e.g., 2025).
.SH CONFIGURATION
.B hcal
can be configured via a user-specific configuration file located at \fB~/.hcalrc\fR.
.PP
The file expects \fBKEY=VALUE\fR pairs. Lines starting with \fB#\fR are ignored.
.TP
.B Supported Options:
.RS
.TP
.B country
Set to \fBJapan\fR to enable Japanese holiday highlighting (including fixed holidays, Happy Mondays, substitute holidays, and Citizens' Holidays).
.TP
.B holiday_color
Set the color for holidays. Default is \fBred\fR.
.br
Supported colors: \fBred\fR, \fBgreen\fR, \fBblue\fR, \fByellow\fR, \fBmagenta\fR, \fBcyan\fR, \fBwhite\fR.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Display the current month:
$ hcal
.TP
Display June of the current year:
$ hcal 6
.TP
Display December 2025:
$ hcal 12 2025
.TP
Display the whole year 2026:
$ hcal 2026
.TP
Display previous, current, and next month:
$ hcal -3
.TP
Display current month and the next 2 months:
$ hcal -A 2
.TP
Display current month and the previous 2 months:
$ hcal -B 2
.SH AUTHORS
Written by the hcal contributors.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cal (1)
